In the footsteps of the rioters, Tonopandi.
This walk follows the footsteps of local miners who rioted here in 1910.
You will hear why the riot happened and discover the effects on Tonopandi and its inhabitants at the time.
The riots that occurred were the result of a power struggle between miners and the colliery owners,
with Tonopandi a prime location for the ongoing conflicts in the wealth of coal fields at the start of the 20th century.
The walk begins at the miners' family statue located next to Tonopandi Asda.
There is ample car park facility in Asda.
Alternatively, there is a council car park beside the Lady with the Lam statue midway down to Winnington Street.
This is at the end of the walk, however, and there are charges for parking.
The walk covers a distance of about half a mile and should take you around 20 minutes to complete.
Please use the map provided to help you navigate the walk following the instructions at the end of each segment to the next location.
From the entrance to the Asda car park, walk south past McDonald's entrance on your right,
take the first right to the Winnipeg Road and turn left.
You will see the miners' statue in a grass square on your left.
Finally, some short history.
In the hamlets of Tonopandi, a farmer discovered coal that he collected for himself but could not mine efficiently on a larger scale.
A mine was developed and later a Scottish entrepreneur developed the mine and later sold the coal, a by-product of mining industry.
A brickwork was also developed using the clay dug from the mine and employing the women and children.